I was a sophomore by the time I joined there, so I really didn't get in on that.
Describe the routine of how the house operated, though.
The freshman had the cleaning chores.
Who set the table?
Who cleared the table?
Things like that.
The freshman did that.
We each had to clean our own rooms and that sort of thing.
I don't know how clean they were, but we maintained those.
What were the rules of behavior?
I'm sure there were none, really.
Not that I can remember.
They were just a bunch of guys together.
We got along very well.
I can't remember anyone ever having any major squabble or anything like that.
I'm sure that there were, well, there were some of the guys that sort of acted like that they were seniors and so forth, but it really wasn't there.
It was kind of like play acting compared to what the guys did in the dorms, I'm sure.
What were, about noise, how much could you turn your radio on whenever you wanted to?
Yes.
And one of our, one of my roommates, my, well we four roommates really weren't happy about was that there was a bunch of guys from next to our room.
Of course there was, you could hear it through the walls very well obviously.
On Saturday nights they liked to play.
hillbilly type music and we didn't like that.
But anyway that's, but there were no, I don't remember ever any kind of difficulties that occurred.
Could you bring alcohol to your room?
I don't know.
But if so, I've never seen any.
I assume not, but I don't really know.
Again, since I started there as a sophomore, I wasn't in on the rules per se.
All right, describe a typical week, class day for you.
What time did you get up?
What did you do?
Take me through the whole day when you were living there in the project house.
I think it had more to do with my being raised on the farm.
We always got up about daybreak and the same way there.
And I'd get up and, I guess, take a shower and get cleaned up.
I don't remember shaving, I don't know, yes I did but I'm normal.
And went down to breakfast, which I assume was probably around 6.30 or 7 o'clock or whatever.
And then we just scattered and came back and everybody went different ways.
There was not a lot of horseplay and things like that.
Oh by the way, most of the guys in my house worked somewhere.
Then we'd come home in time for the noon meal, and the noon meal was, we ate a lot of peanut butter, a lot of, it wasn't, you know, fine food, anything like that, but then, of course we joked about the food, but it was substantial, we got by.
And I can't remember us really having any kind of, as the guys do nowadays, hell raising, anything like that.
We just were, we just seemed to be kind of a quiet sort of,
as best I can remember, any difficulty, anything.
Some of them went their own ways sometimes.
Let me say by the way that often, I would say probably most nights during the week, I would go to the library and do my studying there.
Because I guess there was some horseplay, but I was certainly
part of the group, and I'm sure it was liked by the group, but I just spent my time working in the library.
Now, I understand the library was kind of the place for the campus where nobody was bothered, nobody was hazed.
You could go over there and be left alone.
That was correct in my day, at least.
To my knowledge, I never had any problem at all.
Back in that project house, was the house mother also a person that would take charge if somebody needed to be called down?
Would she tell them occasionally to turn the radio down?
I don't know.
I honestly don't remember a case of anybody ever having to be called down or being called down.
Now, again, I spent a lot of time working
and studying away.
So basically I had to say I took my meals there, I slept there, and I just, I guess I'd say I wasn't a loner necessarily, I just didn't spend a lot of time there.
Now you said there were about 25, 35?
36, I'm sure.
36, all right.
How many restroom facilities were there?
Was there one big shower?
Yeah, one big shower and one big
One restroom, so to speak, for everybody.
Remember how many laboratories?
No, I don't.
But I guess there were a good group.
Must have been.
I never encountered any, you know, any that I can remember.
And you went to class every day.
Yes, yes, you bet.
And if I wasn't in class, I was working in between classes.
And I even wore my uniform while I was out.
you know, mowing and what I was doing.
Do you remember in those early days any experiences you had that you realize now were kind of life-changing?
Something you did or didn't do or some advice you got?
Well, no, not particularly, except I guess one of my professors was
influential in pushing me toward doing graduate work.
Although, see, I was left alone until I graduated and then got called to active duty with the Navy and spent about four years there.
At the time I graduated, I had no earthly idea that I would ever go back to any college ever.
And that's a lengthy story about that one.
I was in the Navy for about four years, and I had gotten my commission, and I was on four different ships.
At the end of the war, they decided, how are we going to let people out of the armed forces?
And there was a point system.
And I had accumulated enough points to get out at that point.
And the Navy being what it was, I was on a ship and my old man, we called him, the captain of my ship, declared me essential to that ship.
I was no more essential in the fifth, so-called fifth wheel.
But I really think it was because that good old Navy system they were in.
If he was comparing himself with his buddies, he had to have more officers under him and, you know, all that kind of stuff.
So he wouldn't let me go.
And I stayed there.
And in the meantime, I was getting letters from my wife who said, you know, so-and-so at home, they're doing this.
And I said, man, I've got to get out of here.
So I found out that one of the rules of the game were that if you were going to go to school, then they had to sort of let you out.
So I found out that Texas A&M was going to start a semester in, I guess, it was spring semester of 1946, I guess, and when it was going to start.
So I presented that information, so they let me out.
And that's how I happened to go really to graduate school.
That's part of it.
But the other part of it is that I had heard so much about people in armed forces having problems adjusting to civilian life and all that.
I said, wouldn't that be great?
I will be here near my folks.
My wife was a Brian girl.
I will be here.
And not really that.
I will be somewhere on campus where as jobs come up and I find out about them, I'll have a shot at them.
And so I enrolled in grad school that way, honestly.
All right, let's go back.
You mentioned your wife.
Yeah.
Describe your social life in those four undergraduate years.
Okay.
We met when I was a sophomore.
And we went to, we were,
Well, we dated each other all throughout that time.
How did you meet?
Kind of a roundabout way.
A friend of mine that I was in orchestra with went to Sam Houston, and he had come to ride to Bryan.
to uh he was going to go home and there was a kid that i went to school with at snoke he was working downtown uh in bryan and he was talking to him and said i need i i got this far out would you
could you sort of help me back to get home to Snook?
And the guy says, yeah, but he decided to ask a girl, the girl he liked, if she would ride out to Snook with him.
And this young lady says, yeah, but if my girlfriend, you know, if my real friend could go with us.
So that's how we happened to meet.
So we went to Snook for the first time.
All right, now, as you began to date... Anyway, so as we began to date and all that, I had very, very little money.
And so we were, you know, we either stayed at her house or we went to the movies.
And by the way, in those days, there were two movies in downtown Bryan.
One was a palace and the other was a queen.
And I may be wrong, but I think the queen was maybe 15 cents, something like that.
The palace, it was much, much higher, maybe 30 cents, I don't know.
And I never really had enough, you know, I didn't feel like I had enough cushion that we could go to the palace.
So we'd always go to Queen and go to the cheap movies.
And by the way, her home was in the walking distance of downtown, just real close.
And so we'd just walk.
And I would catch a ride every time, going to Bryan.
and spend some time with her.
About 10 o'clock or so, I'd head back home.
I'd catch a ride back to the campus, and that was it.
And by the way, in those days, there were cabs.
They would take as many as, they would take seven or eight, and they were 10 cents a piece, I might recall that, at least some point when I was there.
But I never wrote a cab.
I was really, seriously, I was really pushed with money.
And I guess I was tight, just to be honest about it, too.
I wasn't going to spend my money that way.
Now, if you were going to splurge, what would you have done other than a movie?
Oh, okay, we would have gone, at that time, across the street from them was a drugstore, and they had a regular fountain, so we'd get ourselves a cream soda or something like that, I'm not sure, probably a dime or something like that in those days, but we didn't splurge much, but that was my whole, yeah, I was trying to think of a place, Shiloh was the place I was trying to think of back here in those days, and we'd go to dances, by the way,
And her mother loved to go to dances and so she would go with us I guess for whatever reason and we'd go to dances and things like that.
We did that a lot.
And at least on two occasions I remember going to a big time dance in Spisa Hall when we had really big name bands.
Once we had Russ Morgan I remember.
And I think we had one of the Dorces here also one time.
And in those days, by the way, the Aggieland Orchestra was really very, very good.
I'm anxious to learn anything you know about the Aggieland Orchestra.
Who was that?
Who led it?
Who was in it?
Russ Hillier, who was from the family that has a Hillier funeral home, he was one of those leaders.
And I can show you in, no, yeah.
If you go back to my annual, there are some pictures of those.
Were they students?
Oh yeah, 100% students.
But they were good, and they had a big-time band, big-name band arrangements.
I don't know how they got them, but they sounded just like the big bands.
How was a young woman treated at an Aggie dance?
All I can say is very courteously, you know, I think she was treated very, very fine.
As far as I know, I don't suppose I made an Aggie dance over four times, and one of those no doubt was my senior ball.
We had our own dates, and of course we had our own set of friends that we sort of teamed up with.
I don't remember really exchanging our dates and dancing with them.
We just danced with our own, pretty much.
When I asked one man that question, he said they were treated almost like royalty.
Well, I guess that's true.
That's true.
Very true, yeah.
It was a big deal.
And the behavior of everyone was quite good, I understand.
Oh, no, no question.
And I really, of course, you know, I didn't get around like some of them did, but I never,
ever saw an Aggie that was drunk or out of line in any way.
I never saw a so-called fight between two or anything like that.
It was just a, I don't know, maybe it's just where I was at that time.
Very well done.
Can you describe how the routine on the campus began to change after December 7, 1941?
Well, the main thing was that there were other units.
I think the Navy had a unit, some kind of training unit on campus.
There were probably maybe even others, but as students it really didn't change for us because they were housed sort of separately and there was a place
George's, what it was, Confectionary, what it was, that's about, where was it?
I don't know.
What's that right now?
Well I do know kind of where it was.
It was south of the library.
You probably heard about George's Confectionary.
Anyway, that was sort of a gathering place in Greenpeace.
But I can't, I really, you know, I'm sorry, I'm digressing from the question.
All right, didn't they start moving y'all forward faster?
You started going around the clock 12 months a year?
Yes, and my graduation was in 1942, and instead of it being in normal May, I think it was April.
And incidentally, our commencement speaker was Ike Eisenhower.
Really?
Yeah.
Do you remember any impression you had of him?
No, I was just graduating.
Where was the ceremony held?
Oh, the graduation ceremony was always held on Kyle Field itself.
Who came for you?
Who was there?
What special family or friends?
My mother and dad came, and of course my girlfriend.
And I don't remember.
I think probably my brother.
Not only that, my brother probably was the TU guy.
He was the guy who brought them and made it possible for them to come, as a matter of fact.
And was every name called and a diploma handed to each one of you, kind of like we do it now?
I kind of think so.
So there's a handshake and all that.
I'm not positive.
Did you go through final review?
Or were you?
No, I, let's see, did I?
You see, we still, even though I was not in ROTC law, we still were kind of attached in a sense.
Not fully, but we sort of, I don't believe that I was in final review.
I really don't believe.
All right, about other A&M traditions, do you remember when you first went to Silver Taps?
Or do you remember Silver Taps when you... No, I don't remember anything going on.
What about Bonfire?
Did you help gather up some of the rubbish and the... No, no, nothing like that.
Mustard?
I don't remember that either.
Did you go on any court trips?
No.
During football season?
Did you go to football games?
Yes.
Home games?
Yes, but I went there because in order to earn money, I sold cokes or peanuts or popcorn or something like that.
But as far as I know, I never, in those days, the guys had a,
coupon book, something like that, that I assume they paid for.
I never owned one, never did.
And I would go to some things, but it was always somebody would say, hey, you want to go over here?
I'm not going to get my coupon book.
I never paid for that.
I was really strapped for money.
I'm not kidding.
How far away, before you left, before you graduated and left for the service, how far away had you traveled?
Well, I had been to Houston several times.
Oh, by the way, even in high school, our band had concerts at Baylor.
And by the way, in the Centennial, even though I had graduated from high school, the Caldwell High School band was one of those that played at the state.
The Centennial in Dallas?
Yes.
And we stayed there a couple of days.
And so I got to stay in hotels and all that sort of stuff.
By the way, there was a terrific band named Jan Garber.
Man, he had beautiful music.
Anyway, so I, but I had, and of course in the National Guard, I had gone to Louisiana to Fort, what was it?
Polk?
Yeah, out there.
And I had gone there, but I had not really, oh, I'm wrong too.
Also, in high school, I was fortunate enough to be chosen, I guess you'd say, as a part of what they call the FFA Texas Band.
And I went to Texas City with that band, Texas FFA Band.
No, I went to Kansas City, in which we participated in that.
Ooh, big drip.
That's right, you bet.
Went on the train?
Yeah, yeah, sure.
Let's see, do you remember any other famous campus visitors?
You mentioned Dwight Eisenhower.
Sure, let's see, other famous ones.
Presidents, governors.
Well, I'm sure Linden, let's see.
No, before, while you were an undergraduate.
No.
I'm sure there were some generals, but I wasn't all that into ROTC.
All right.
Who were some of the closest buddies you had as undergraduates?
Who were your closest friends?
Okay.
My closest friends were those that were in my project houses.
Joe Bert Nash was one of them from Normandy.
John Box from Centerville.
Then there were people like a guy that was a year, he was a junior when I was a senior, Hubert Faust.
It was from Granberry, near Fort Worth out there somewhere.
I guess the closest buddy I ever had at that time was a guy by the name of Smith.
Charles Smith, I believe, his nickname was Pudgy, and he was called Fats the Smith.
And he and his buddies, and another guy was Joe Ruth.
They lived out somewhere out around Millica.
And they would come in and I met them through, again, I think at the boarding alley.
They were a great, great town.
Joe Ruth turned out to be an Episcopal bishop.
And just, you know, they were fine.
And Fads was from Abilene, near Abilene.
And Fads and I got killed in the war.
Joe died within the last five or six years.
Those were, I guess, my best buddies, and I knew them basically through, again, being at the bowling alley and so forth.
You know, our friendships evolved from that.
That was the beginning.
I remember going to, I guess, Senior Ball with Joe Ruth and his girlfriend and all that sort of stuff, probably, yeah.
All right, student indulgences during that time.
Smoking?
Did many students smoke?
Not that I know of.
And in our project house, I really, I can't recall anybody smoking.
All right, what about drinking?
Well, let's put it this way.
There was this common thing that supposedly has happened.
There was a place south of us, not too far, called Ed Hart Liquors.
Some of the guys would go there, and like some Saturdays or Saturday nights, and I'm told, and I'm assuming it's correct, they would drink quite a bit of beer.
As a matter of fact, maybe skunk drunk, if that's the case.
But again, I wasn't in on that, because
I guess you think I was strictly a loner, maybe I was, but any time I had my girlfriend and other things.
Right now, I haven't heard much about whiskey, though, during that era.
No, I don't remember any partaking thereof or any, never heard of it.
And I mean, it wasn't there, I just didn't.
Was there, as far as you know, was there a bootlegger in Brazos County for whiskey?
No, no, no.
I do know that there used to be a lot of talk about it.
You know, if this is in fact,
But again, Aggies in our days love to brag about things.
I often wondered if they were really just saying this.
But they started talking about going across what they call Whiskey Bridge over here.
Now, I don't know.
Did that exist when you were a student?
There wasn't enough traffic, was there?
Well, on that one occasion, yeah.
But remember, again, by the time I graduated,
The hard surface road was in there, I believe.
Okay.
All the way to the lines, I do believe.
There was a field that the Bryan Air Base used, sort of a practice to land on whatnot, let's see, just south of Snook there.
And I think that had more to do with that than anything else.
Okay.
You know, they needed that, so they had this hard surface road.
All right, let's go back to academically.
When did you settle in on being a rural sociology major?
Or is that what it was called?
Yeah, that's what it's called, absolutely.
That had to be probably either the beginning
I guess the beginning of my sophomore year, I assume.
Okay.
If not, it was certainly the second semester of my sophomore year.
And what did you think that was going to lead you to do in your future?
Well, I had heard about things, for example, I remember thinking how nice it would be, one of the things that there was to be a
big federal prison in, around, somewhere in Dallas.
You know, like that employment was something like that.
There was, I really didn't, I guess that's about it.
I really didn't know what I was going to do.
As you were preparing to leave, to graduate and leave, to go off to war,
uh did you and your friends how long did you all think the war was going to last did you have any gas i didn't really uh i didn't think it lasted as long as it did obviously but i i wasn't really you know i really wasn't knowledgeable about it i'll be honest with you i knew little about what was going on i didn't i wasn't one of these guys who picked up the paper and read it daily who did you think was going to win the war
Well, there was no doubt in my mind because I was just among it.
That's all I heard.
I think today's students are surprised at that because I've had many students say, well, what about all the opponents of the war?
I tell them there were none.
And well, did y'all think we'd win?
That wasn't a doubt.
See, one of the difficulties, not difficulties, but one thing I felt badly about was that
I graduated from college, and we were supposed to, as soon as we graduated, the Registrar's Office was to send to the Navy people the proof that we had graduated, and so here we go.
Well, apparently, the Registrar's Office did not send them the notice that I had graduated, and so I graduated, and
thought, well, I'm going any day, so I went back home, and I kind of hung around there a little bit, and they didn't call me, they didn't call me, and I really felt, really kind of, I shall say it, kind of, not ashamed, but thinking,
God, all these guys are gone, and someone's getting killed and all that, and I'm still here.
What do these people think of me, you know?
And I'd tell them, well, I'm going to the Navy, but that's, you know, I had no real proof of that.
So they didn't call me and say, I graduated, I believe it was April, but it was.
And I didn't get called until November.
Oh.
That was long, but that was because, again, they had, and so finally, there's Governor Al Giesenslaw, that graduated with me.
He was already in midshipment school and all that.
So I have it in my files.
I wrote to the Navy Center in New Orleans, I guess it was, and said, hey, I'm still here, and I've not heard from you, and my buddies are gone, and what about this?
And they apparently wrote back and said, we don't have any record of you doing this.
So I went to Ray Starr's office and said, hey, what's going on?
They sent it, and bingo, I got back in.
I really felt, I shall say it, probably not ashamed, but nevertheless, I felt really
Kind of out of place.
Awkward at least.
Yeah, that's right.
Awkward.
That's right.
Good word for it.
When did you get married?
Before you left?
No, no, no.
Oh.
So after midshipman school, I got my commission, and I got assigned to a ship in San Francisco.
It was an ammunition ship.
We took on live ammunition and we delivered it to the fleet out there as they needed it and stayed out of the way if they got the big battles so that we'd blow up everybody ourselves.
Anyway, I had made a trip out to South Pacific State, I believe about maybe 13 months, something like that.
I'm not sure.
And, you know, it wasn't been the way.
It was a long time.
And I found out that we were
Yeah.
I found out that we were going to be, I wasn't supposed to know this, but somehow I found out that we were going to be back in San Francisco and that we were going to be due for some overhaul and that sort of thing.
So I wrote my girlfriend, hey, we're supposed to be in San Francisco.
I'm going to be there maybe for a month or so.
I think it would be a good idea if he'd come out and... Oh, my goodness.